[Music]
hello and welcome to the BBC good food
podcast with Tom courage I'm Orlando and
we're here today to talk about citing
ingredients cooking techniques and
general kitchen chat plus we have an
original Tom carriage recipe for you to
try out at home whether you're a
beginner or a budding chef welcome back
to the BBC good food podcast with Tom
carriage rosie Berkut and me Orlando
Marin today we're going to be talking
about British cheeses Tommy if I can
start with you what you use for cheese
on toast assuming of course that you
like cheese on toast as much as everyone
else in the world does you doesn't like
G's on toast I think that has to be the
darkest question ever I mean Jesus is
the greatest it I mean to be honest the
stronger the more mature the most
amazing cheddar you can get I absolutely
love it I mean if you're gonna go like
real posh you grate cheddar and then you
put grate in some gooey cheese as well
to the mix and put it on and I can go
all out right but normally it would be a
piece of toast with some sliced cheddar
on stick it under the grill but you
gotta cook it see I cook I don't do it
on a real high heat or drop the grill to
a lower one underneath it and and slowly
melt the cheese so the toast doesn't
burn so the cheese has plenty of time to
caramelize and get those lovely crispy
when it goes from it likes dark orange
all around the outside that's what I
look for look so slow cooking cheese for
cheese on toast is amazing with a little
bit of oyster sauce and strong cheddar
um do you toast one side of the bread
first or both sides both sides so it's
crispy so both sides have bread so it's
crispy roses nearly agreeing man I am in
agreement with almost everything you've
said apart from the toasting of both
sides no mate you have a soggy bit this
is just my childhoods and it was
probably the first thing that I learnt
to cook that I cooked for myself and my
sister and I I remember always toasting
one side and the bread was you know
quite sort of below average white sliced
bread toast one side onto the grill then
turn it over
take it out from under the grill cover
it in cheddar Worcester sauce under the
grill and then until caramelizing yeah
and I think it's so that it's sort of
seeps in slightly yeah yeah I think
that's a bit gummy I have to say I like
the double toasting myself and then you
put the Worcester sauce on before you
grill it
do you I think we did yeah we used to
put the Worcester sauce on and then
maybe a bit more definitely before you
grill it so that it seeps into the
cheese and it creates these kind of
little brown bubbling yeah what's the
sauce goes on before you grill so it
kind of it cooks into the cheese that's
definite and then afterwards cracked
black pepper so it's big punchy spicy
flavors strong cheddar Worcester sauce
crap black pepper and just to check
again you slice the channel you grate it
you mentioned the grating work well you
could go super posh and you could grate
it and do a mix of cheeses if you wanted
to but like standard where I would slice
the cheddar yeah because if you're
grated if you've got really fine cheddar
with those little kind of crunchy
morsels of saltiness yeah the the
grating kind of disturbs that that that
texture it does I'd only grate it if you
were mixing up the cheese's if so you
could mix the two cheese fries put it on
so you get that kind of like lovely
salty big kick from a good from her
lovely cheddar and something a bit gooey
and unctuous something I don't know
maybe like a good Gruyere or something
like that that melts really nicely those
two together will work really lovely
we're all getting rather hungry and we
will be eating in the moment and we've
got a wonderful recipe coming out which
is some she based on it cheese on toast
so that is something to look forward to
and we've got wonderful aromas floating
around the studio while we're here but
we have mentioned cheddar and it's
cheddar really the English cheese the
the British the great British cheese
only A's for me I mean I'm from the west
country not far from cheddar gorge where
I like I mean it is amazing I remember
going there and school trips and they
are like it's fantastic for me it's it's
kind of the ultimate I think if you
think of a cheese it should be exported
and cheddar style cheese's that the
world recognize recognizes it's the one
thing that we do really well that's
different to pretty much every
cheese in the in the rest of the world
like you know Italian cheeses a
fantastic French cheeses are amazing you
know there's so many great cheese makers
out there around the world but and a
British cheddar is something that's
hugely recognizing that style of
something that we do I think it's
amazing yes it seems to come in
different types I'm in Devon and there's
a rather grassy one which is absolutely
marvelous and then some of them there's
a much drier chillier one the Montgomery
one which is really famous and these are
all masters of their art but they're
quite different in character yes it's
aged in process how they're aged what
they've done the milk the style of the
milk that it's seasonal as well you know
so many people don't make it remote
they'll think that cheese is seasonal
but it's huge because obviously it
depends on that the milk that comes from
the dairy cattle that what the times of
the year that they're out and when
they're able to eat grass and when
they're not and what's going so it
really does vary throughout the year so
but yeah Cheddar's for me are absolutely
selling like say the Montgomery one you
mentioned there I mean there that's what
a powerful big kick that Jesus got it's
fantastic and the Keynes cheddar as well
as yeah really really good I think
there's such a distinction to be drawn
as well between really fantastic
farmhouse artisan produced cheese's and
obviously the the mass-produced
industrialized cheese's that are made
with big homogenous amounts of milk from
all kinds of different cows and
pasteurized and taken all of the
character out of it whereas you know
we're talking about cheeses that as you
say are expressive of where they're from
there's the season the climate the
weather what the cows have been grazing
on and that is the amazing thing about
cheese and it's why it's kind of one of
the real agricultural products that we
should be so proud of in this country
because there it is so regional and
there are so many different ones being
made but obviously that heritage of
farmhouse Jesus has been in decline you
know since the Second World War and
since the industrialization of food and
it's something that we all should be
supporting and celebrating yeah you can
see why they manufacture enormous you
know house sized blocks of cheddar
because people want you know a bit of
cheddar and they're not that worried
about it but it's the artisan things
which because they've got the same name
as cheddar and anyone can call anything
cheddar I could go out of this room and
say that I'm
cheddar couldn't I and it wouldn't be
illegal what I'm getting at here is that
it's not a protected name the way that
Stilton have slapped a protection on
their name and other and of course in
France where all the the names that the
cheese's are protected with barbed wire
and radiation if the gender is going on
a style rather than recognizing your
area like it's that's why I think you
know so you can get cheddar style
cheeses from from all over I mean like
Rosie mentioned Keens that's from you
know that's up in Lancashire way
Somerset well that's the Lancashire
cheese is that the gram Kirkham one yes
yes so that is called a Lancashire
cheese and it is the last remaining
cheese in language cheese in the world
made with raw milk right yeah so not
pasteurized
no yeah and I think your flavors yeah
huge flavors and it's quite scary that
it is is the last one in the world and
that's why it's become so well known and
yeah they're sort of dying out a lot of
these cheese's we have a lot to thank
Neal's Yard for lately they have been
for 20 years championing the British
cheese industry and really going out
there finding cheese's and encouraging
cheese makers and then bringing them to
Neal's Yard where you great
restaurateurs Tom I imagine you you find
out what's going on to find out what the
best cheeses are but yeah I mean Neal's
Yard they've been a source of cheese
knowledge of Fenton of cheese knowledge
for like say over 20 years now and there
and there and they really do champion
British British products British
cheese's small-scale producers and
suppliers and and like Rosie says it's
it is very sad that it we move away from
it although it's pretty much like
everything that's in the food market if
you think everybody those special things
were always seen a special treat cheese
was always seen as a chi but now it's
become so mal everybody just express
cheese you know using salmon to cheese
in lamb sandwich from the supermarket
for a quick lunch
it's not seen as special anymore it's
the same as I don't know chicken or it's
the same as like I remember as a kid
having roast chicken and that was
something special now chicken is just
something you just that whole production
of stuff has got but at the same point
what it does do I think is showcase how
good small-scale producers are how good
that cheese is when you really do get to
taste the difference between cheese are
you used to buying a sandwich from the
supermarket for a quick lunch and then
having something that's so special when
you come across it like it blows your
mind you know this cheese is like
unbelievable unbelievably good so in
some ways it is it's poor that we don't
recognize it as being something so
special anymore but when you do come
across him you recognize how special
they are absolutely and I think it's
about as you say seeing it as a treat
and essentially remembering that it is
an agricultural product and it's an
animal product so there's a huge story
behind every single cheese and we
probably have got away from that idea
through buying packets of you know
industrially produced cheddar in the
supermarket but really we should be
thinking or where's this coming from
how's it made what's the story and
actually there's a huge amount of time
that's gone into rearing the animals
milking them looking after them feeding
them and producing the cheese and and
there's usually a very interesting story
attached to the cheese maker as well and
finding out about those things they're
fascinating guys the cheese makers when
you're getting together they love a
party I went to achieves makers party in
it it went on all night I look into it
frankly they're very very jolly but I
think that's like anybody who's involved
in food on that kind of artists and the
small scale that people are I mean
they're so passionate about what they do
and they're very it's the same as people
who brew beer or wines or or create a
Baker's or people who that because
they're so their world is about this one
product that it makes it so it such an
exciting little world to be in and then
hear us on the other side of it that
tried to meet all of the guys from all
areas of those industry it creates this
wonderful eclectic mix of incredible
producers maybe they're cooped up with
their cheeses 364 days the year and then
the day that they're less yeah they're
going saying with all their fellow was
there lots of wine involved there was
lots and lots of one-hand beer and cider
of course yeah go so everyone just
expects I would think you think of
cheese in wine but actually this this
the flavor the flavor layers that you
can get through trees is so complicated
that you can't they can mix we can mix
with so much we tried everything with
everything this is Academy can't be
caught which is where the Montgomery
Cheddar's made and we had eight or nine
cheese's each served with a different
beer cider or wine and it was it was
unimaginable exciting experience and so
different every cheese has very careful
notes but when you look around our
countryside if you couldn't have an
aerial view of Britain it you it screams
out this is where beautiful cheese
should be made that that lush farmland
every possible variety of different sort
of farmland soil rainfall its is what we
ought to be doing but we but we seem to
have the the the real thing about
British cheese's as I say is the hard
cheeses and of course the Stilton and
we've never gone in for the huge range
of soft cheeses that the French have and
this is that a shame do you think that's
something that we we should have done
maybe copy the continental cheeses too
there are something yeah there are
imitations aren't there like British
Somerset Brie for instance yeah and
there's Barron Big O which is made in
Suffolk I think which is a preseason and
it's so creamy and delicious New York
yes it's a breeze style cheese and then
we can't forget stinking Bishop Eva
I know it's slightly changed of Barry's
become pasteurized when I when I first
came across it was an unpasteurized
cheese that was just I mean it was
phenomenal a washed-rind soft gooey kind
of cheese it's similar ish to a past but
not quite as I mean what a cheese that
is absolutely amazing credibility's then
is called stinking Bishop because that's
the name of the variety of pear that the
that made the Perry that the rind was
washed in yeah
I never it does stink and although yeah
we've had a question in from Instagram
how do you how men to store these
stinking cheese's because I know that
they're banned on French public
transport some of the cheese's they are
indeed you're not allowed to take well I
don't know whether you'd be arrested or
not but you're get them around mmm
probably eat them on the spot eat them
at the market I don't know but they do
permeate shall we say the fridge don't
they in any solutions for that or just
enjoy this enjoy and get on with it I
mean I would keep them in a key I would
keep them in another like a plastic and
see another fridge yeah well yeah have
it ideally have a second
no our home but at work we do yes or
actually in the restaurants we do have a
cheese fridge because it's you know one
because we got so much of it but to who
because it's a it does the smell is it
does permeate into everything else but
if you keep it in a in a Tupperware box
with a lid that seals it you know it's
fine but you know the trick is to
actually not have it in there long eat
it yeah there's also british parmesan i
think made in saucer that's called twine
and grange which is for people who
forever whatever reason don't want to
eat real parmesan is meant to be a
completely acceptable substitute but
there's a different thing copying
foreign jesus isn't it and when we
really have enough to celebrate in the
ones that you know we have we've always
made yeah but I get it because you know
when you look when you look around at
the cheeses of France in particular I
mean they're for normal they've been
cheese making for you know and making
some of the world's best for years upon
years upon years of brilliant blues
brilliant soft fantastic washed-rind
incredible goats you know that they do
make amazing cheese's again because
France is such a huge farmland with with
amazing agriculture and an incredible
and incredible partners and fantastic
weather systems that change and then you
know it moves up into the Alps and you
get things like VAT Ram and that comes
around I know that's not French but you
know the idea of the whole that this
it's so varied so there's so many
cheese's in France which are great and
because they're so good there's nothing
wrong with having a look at what they do
and then using our milk that comes from
a similar sort of areas and going well
why can't I have a go at making the best
Brie or the best washed-rind or the best
on that there is a there is an Italian
man who has actually come to the UK
specifically for that reason because he
couldn't get a high enough quality of
milk in Italy which is really surprising
because I think when we look at Italy we
always think they're so superior to us
in terms of food and drink on every
level but he he came over
his name's Claudio De Luca and he is
making burrata in the UK and he's making
it at Helen Browning's farm in Wiltshire
and she's the CEO of the Soil
Association and the reason he came to
the UK was because he wanted this really
beautiful organic milk from cows that
have fed on a fantastic biodiverse
pasture and the fact that he came to the
UK to use the milk here to make the
burrata is saying quite a lot yeah I
mean this is amazing we're very lucky on
these shores it's such a smaller line
but with incredible produce and you know
our cheese does rate up there in some of
the as some of the best in the world
instantly I saw a video of someone
making vegan mozzarella gone into it was
that school night vegan because he's
been making on Instagram he's amazing
what's it
what does make it from rubber do they
melt down plastic or something is that
hard to think how you could make
mozzarella without starting off with
milk yeah I mean there are nut milks
there aren't there so whether there's
some kind of way oh that's tough
chickpea water that magic style but
that's so funny the things you can do
with chickpea water we do digress from
British cheese's don't we but I mean
that is married stuff
I wondered if you know people make
mayonnaise from it and meringues and
things I wonder if it's actually you
could do the same with just water you're
out to water you don't need the chickpea
water at all or whether there really is
something in the protein that leaks out
of the GPS it's common they're
emulsifiers in a similar way to egg
white right so it's I think you Rosie
are scientific and technical consultant
there never been called that before
sit Tom in the restaurant ah British
cheese is popular on your cheese board
do you do cheese was it specifically
British how do you handle it no we do we
do we do we work very hand of flowers we
probably have about five or six cheese's
in that sit on the cheese board and then
we have a hardware a bit soft we avert
goats we have a blue and then we have a
special or seasonal special of what it
is but sometimes that seasonal special
will change to it might be like I
mentioned earlier Vacheron when that is
in season that is incredible and it's
not British and you go okay you know
it's fine but the other ones we work
really hard to try and find great
British cheese's of a hard soft blue and
a goat's and you just try and make sure
that and again that alters and that
alters fate of the year because of the
way that the seasons work and but yeah
we always look for British first
carriages in the centre of London and
our cheese board our cheese selection is
a little bigger because it's a kind of
presented in the room and it's a great
big space so so we we do take cheese's
from around the world but there I would
say we're 80 percent British in
carriages as well so we're always
looking for showcasing the best British
produce that there is good man now I
wondered where you both were on flavored
cheese this because I know these are
quite controversial and we are social
media what they thought and there was a
lot of humming and Harmon some people
were ill on the spot
other people said oh go on what's wrong
with it because you eat a bit of cheese
with something anyway so if it's been
done for you I think it's wrong I gotta
be honest I can't think of a single
unprocessed flavoured cheese's get like
if you're singing about it is a
brilliant product you're looking at
artisan cheese makers who love from the
word go that the farm the cattle the the
way they've been looked after them the
milks of the project the way that it is
produced everything about it it's about
that raw milk produce being turned into
cheese the moment that you then start
flavoring it with garlic or red peppers
or whatever it's it becomes a secondary
product however I do get why some people
like them and if it's an introduction
into people having it something on their
cheese board at home at Christmas or
something that gets people who don't
normally like cheese into eating it I
get it and I get I get it but it's not
something that I would eat I have to be
honest when I was like I mean you know
if it was the only cheese
then I might but I gotta be honest it's
not something I'm all about the person
that's made it and where the milk
product comes from and rather than it
actually been something that's got a
load of fake smoked flavor into it or
something that's a bit odd saying that I
I'm with you and I find those Wensley
Dale's with like mango and ginger and
strawberry and cranberry whatever they
put in quite quite disgusting and I
wasn't really into smoked cheese either
and then I was judging some the dairy
category for the soil associations boom
Awards recently and I tried a smoked
cheddar and it was unbelievably good
yeah but is that something that's had
smoke flavor added to it or is that the
cheddar that's then been cold smoked oak
smoke yeah yeah yeah so you've made a
great cheese and then you've stuck it in
a cold smoker yeah I get there you're
adding a different thing to that I'm
100% behind that love that yeah and you
can also wrap things in things to give
them a bit of flavor that's legitimate
isn't it like the French use um what are
grape skins I think and I think yolk is
wrapped which doesn't give it an obvious
flavor but it's got some kind of grassy
quality to all of those sort of flavor
enhancement flavors from nature I get
and I love that and I think that's great
but um while garlic sometimes yes wrap
we're all right on the outside but we're
a bit worried about little blobs of
Christmas pudding floating about in the
middle of the cheese and that sort of
thing yeah yeah I don't mind a bit of
truffle though style I just a cheese
competition once and I was on the I was
given a couple of categories to be it to
be judged and one then was flavored
cheddar and everyone pointed and laughed
and because we were the novice judges we
got this dreadful category to judge and
it did have bits that you would like
fruit cocktail flavored cheese and alien
alien flavors Marmite of course some
people like Marmite cheese now all right
I'm getting nods from Rosie well I'm not
you think when we get down to it people
a bit more edible about
Marmite and cheese is such an incredible
combination and it's for me it's
childhood sandwiches so ever like almost
every day I'd have a cheese and Marmite
or just pure Marmite and butter sandwich
and there is a chef called Robert Taylor
who has the compasses in in Chron Dale
and Kent I know you're a fan of his
cooking Tom he's amazing he's a really
incredible chef and I went for a meal at
his restaurant recently in him he had a
bread bread selection of freshly baked
bread that he'd made and the butters
came out and one of the one of the
things on the plate with the butters was
a mascarpone so a cream cheese that had
been blended with Marmite just very very
subtly and it was so delicious so he'd
actually mixed the Marmite into the
mascarpone and made a kind of Marmite
flavoured soft cheese and it was
unbelievably good with the bread
how clever just a hint of Marmite you
know women to love or hate Marmite
couldn't I declare myself at this point
of someone who's kind of it's fine but
you know I'm in the in the middle how do
you want Tom on Marmite I'm stuck like I
oh I'm all I'm like you I'm like I'm all
right with it is quite quite nice I
wouldn't it wouldn't be my first choice
for spreading on top of a piece of toast
but if I went wrong someone's a slate at
night and that was the only snack that
it I go delicious thank you very much I
love it however I would probably turn
down a packet twiglets that's the thing
I'm not I'm not all over them like I've
gotta be honest with that kind of extra
Marmite flavor I'm not so yes I I mean
I'm in the middle like you I'm like yeah
I'll go it's useful it can be used by I
have it in my kitchen I use it too if
you're glazing the top of a pie or tart
savory obviously and in the egg you very
good really nice color that's how I use
it I wouldn't I wouldn't say that I love
it spread thickly on toast or anything
like that any kind of thick amount of
Mama it's actually quite disgusting but
a hot buttered piece of toast with
Justin Smith a real lick of Marmite just
sinking into the butter is really really
delicious they're advertising campaign
we've wrecked though about love it or
hate it and we because we all quite like
it but not that not that Bob
we're on the strong flavors can we talk
about Stilton yeah oh right great I am a
fan of Stilton I think I prefer I prefer
a creamier blue cheese just texturally
wise I'm I'm but flavor-wise of Stilton
I think is fantastic is it be crumbly
yes bit crumbly like but it wouldn't be
my first choice of having a slice of it
I love it but I go if there's one blue
cheese out there I go I know something a
bit soft okay like a good cash shell
blue no you have to have this it's an
incredible cheese again I know we were
talking about Neal's Yard and what
they've been doing for British cheese
but it is one of the cheese's that they
kind of had a hand in developing it's
made by a cheese maker called Joe
Schneider in NOK Nottingham share and
it's a Stilton style cheese made with
raw milk and it's incredibly creamy
really complex it's got all the dough
you need that on your cheese board yeah
normally I need it now
thanks mate and if you cook with blue
cheese a lot yeah I like blue cheese a
lot yeah we use it we use it for lots is
everything the blue cheese it's like one
of the it's one of those things that has
a defining characteristic but then on
top of that there's underlined
there's a saltiness it comes with it
it's great for seasoning it's great for
power it's great for flavour and you
look at you know you can go through to
rock for I mean if you look at rock for
I mean that's one of the strongest
cheese's around where it's almost got
like this kind of film of like salty
greasy big punchy flavor it comes with
it the moment you blend that with
something or add that into something
those big dark flavors it doesn't become
about cheese anymore it becomes about a
counter balance of strength facilities
salt so yeah I use blue cheese a lot in
terms of a cooking as a balance and
flavors yeah it really adds impact
doesn't it huge yeah but not just for
the sake of when it's a blue cheese it's
actually what the dimensions of what
those flavours bring that's what I
always look at with cheese's like that I
think it's got a sweetness to it as well
can have yeah fruitiness yeah I'm
something with cheese last week and it
was a recipe actually the printed recipe
and it had tips Ben vinegar in it as
well when its at this tastes like blue
cheese but it wasn't blue cheese and it
was the vinegar that was giving a blue
cheese kind of atmoss to the dish which
was a bit of a surprise because you and
I think it must be the sweetness and
maybe the aroma I don't know why that
happened yeah country flavors of the
blue cheese gives away that gives out
you know it's it's always it's normally
that and goes you know when you go to
posh restaurants not like mine obviously
but you know whether you get that cheese
board and then you're given when you
have it on your plate and you have your
little slices and the waiter tells you
to go one way around the plate because
it starts off with a milder one and you
don't want to end up with the strongest
one first because then you won't be able
to taste the ones at the back you know
so you go blue cheese is normally the
last one that you eat when the weight
because it is the one with the biggest
punch the biggest flavor that if you if
you start with that you'll never taste
anything else and it's quite hard to
find something to drink with it
I mean tradition think they support with
with Stilton don't they because it needs
something
uber powerful to kind of handle those
flavors doesn't it yeah big the other
good thing that a lot of places look at
ourselves included Sherry's a very good
with it because whether oak aged that
oak aging process that the flavors that
share his take on I don't mean like the
cheap cheapy Sherry's I mean like really
nice lovely ones that have been aged for
a long time they go so well they're so
woody aren't they maybe they work really
well with it and Sidis rosie was talking
about in those sodas and beers as well
can go with it I mean it is so complex
cheese's there's a lot of things to
drink with it not little it's not cheese
Tiger a I don't know maybe not still to
come on bebe secret foods podcast with
Tom carriage exactly that's a great big
tall step wedge of toast is replaced by
an lovely wrote it a bit coalified at
works so well now some people eat their
cauliflower quite raw I find but I'm
must be old-fashioned because I quite
like it well
so I or you might be in trouble here
then because it's a bit chunky now one
of them amazing things about cheese is
like like chocolate that it's got this
thing that happens when you melt it I
mean in chocolate wait melts in your
mouth when you eat it but with with
cheese it melts into dishes which give
which gives you all sorts of thrilling
possibilities in the kitchen of doing
things with it
are there any favorite things that you
like to cook with cheese apart from
things we've already mentioned I mean I
mean cheese is amazing in any kind of
tart or quiche and and holds the whole
thing together really doesn't it
wouldn't you tart or quiche without the
cheese really would it it's a great way
of using up any odds and sorts of cheese
that you might have in your fridge as
well if you've got you know something
that maybe it wouldn't be so nice to
actually eat because maybe it's going a
bit hard or whatever melting it into a
tart with some veg is really good yeah
and souffles how are we on souffle
twice-baked cheese souffls one of the
first things I learned to me I mean it
was one of the dishes that you know as a
chef that started in the kitchen in you
know renovate 1990-91 like twice-baked
cheese souffls I mean come from based
on the Gavroche recipes that you just go
right this is amazing it's beautiful you
bake them once they kind of collapse and
then you put through the oven again for
service and they puff up and they're
delicious and it just big again big
strong cheesy flavors but they're
fantastic I love a cheese souffle they
sound to the novice twice-baked souffles
like that's gonna be not just Lauren
just got to make a souffle then I've got
to twice do the whole thing but really
it's rather practical just to explain
how it happens because it is ultra
reliable listen what I mean essentially
you're making a thick white sauce with
cheese in like that's the base so if you
know you make your white sauce you know
your flour and your butter and your milk
and you bring it up to the ball and you
cook it out like you're making a
standard one then you throw in all your
cheese that you can admit and then you
cook it out for a bit until it's really
thick you leave it to go cold and then
out of that sauce you then whisk up your
egg whites and you mix the two together
put them into your buttered and bread
crumb souffle mold and bake them in AB
amory so they puff up to a nice souffle
and you've got cook them enough so that
they actually cook all the way through
so that they're set
yeah yeah take about the everyone leave
him to cool and it is actually really
quite easy you leave him to cool turn
them out of the soup and they go down
don't get alarmed don't alarmed anyone
your weight remember to look like a
puncher football that's exactly what you
want they collapse and then you turn
them out and when they're cold that's
fine you keep them in the fridge right
there
then you take you put them onto a baking
tray lined with baking parchment
no no ramekin no nothing just the
collapse puncher down is the best way
and then you put them back into a high
high temperature of about 220 and you
bake them for about five to eight
minutes and they rise up again they
weren't they're not perfect shape
they're not but what they do is they
puff up again a little bit and then they
start to brown and they crisp up and
you've got this amazing brilliant
souffle that's Dale easy to do serve it
on the table is fantastic and they're
much better than an actual souffle I
think because an actual souffle tends to
be caustically hot in the middle by the
time you get your fork into it you can't
really touch it for a few seconds
whereas this doesn't seem to be so
damaging Li hot no it's a savory it's a
savory souffle and it tastes great it's
a real good star or you could do one big
one to serve it is it like as a main
part never done that my mom's really
into twice-baked G souffle she doesn't
quite often for her lunches for her
friends and it's great because you're
taking the Jeopardy out of the whole
rising and being like the Jeopardy free
lunch party yeah and you can make them
ahead so you make them ahead and then
you just heat it up in the oven like you
say yeah do you know we better have
something to eat because we have this
great recipe on good for this great Tom
recipe for cauliflower rabbits yeah this
is the best of many worlds coming
together here because it's a cauliflower
steak cute corner I think would yes
cauliflower has become quite where
people are looking for meat-free Mondays
and vegetarian dishes and and vegetables
being about one you know the big thing
that everybody kind of is looking for
you know how to make more of vegetables
and let them sing for themselves
cauliflower has come through is one of
those great things is so luscious flavor
it works so well with cheat or like
everybody know so it's like a big chunk
of cauliflower that you cut through the
middle and you roast and then you make a
rare bit but you make a rare bit mix and
this is
dead easy to make very similar to make
him a souffle base you kind of cook out
and flour and butter and a bit milk and
then you melt the cheese into it add in
a couple of egg yolks and you take it
off the heat and leave it to cool and
then you can kind of like shape it and
roll it and it's kind of shaped and goes
on top of the cauliflower and then baked
so please dive in we've got can hear the
jingling of actual knives and forks
here you go Rosie thank you it's very
good us out Pete that'd be fantastic
so the cauliflower is really taking the
place of the of the toast yes exactly
that's a great big four step wedge of
toast is replaced by an lovely roasted
bit cauliflower that works so well now
some people eat their cauliflower quite
raw I find but I must be old-fashioned
because I quite like it well cut so I
you might be in trouble here don't
because it's a bit chunky well I think
that what I would be inclined to do is
actually simmer the cauliflower till
it's tender that's the solution yeah
yeah but Rosie or munch younger than I
am so you probably like your vegetables
very crunch thank you actually um Thank
You chef actually I'm with you on
cooking vegetables until they're tender
and I do a cauliflower cheese we're
roast a whole cauliflower in the oven a
bit like what Tom saying roast it until
it's nice and tender and then make a
cheese sauce and pour that over and then
roast it again with that on and then it
goes fully tender by roasting if you
leave it in there how long does that
take 20 25 30 minutes in a hot oven
yeah the first roast and then you pour
the cheese sauce on and then bake it
again I'm very relieved to hear that
because I remember the days when when
they were trying to discourage us from
overcooking vegetables and the
vegetables were really really crunchy
and they didn't taste of anything they
sure you heard them when you act them
but they didn't there is a kind of to
use that current phrase a sweet spot
with a vegetable where actually tastes
of something and is still not overcooked
you must be aiming for that the whole
time are you Tamil or yeah although I it
really depends on the dish I have to be
honest vegetables
something like this where this is just
perfect so you've got a crunch from the
core in the middle and the soft a bit on
the outside but when you look at
building dishes as complete things
you're also looking for texture so
sometimes crunchy vegetables under
cooked vegetables are perfect for
something because they highlight other
things of day so some it's a little bit
more complex when I think you're looking
at a complete dish building but most of
the time for vegetables if they're
singing that on their own yeah they
gotta be cooked all the way through
they've got because all I think I love
like an a crunchy pickled cauliflower
with say a roasted cauliflower maybe a
shave three wedding textures yes Lorna's
pickled softness things that just salted
so that I mean when you just salt things
what that does is it softens them but it
still they still have a raw texture it's
quite a weird thing that goes on so all
of those kind of processes it it's just
a little is there's a little bit more to
it but yeah I'm vegetables should be
allowed to be what they are however I do
think that all vegetables from now on
should be served with cheese topping
perfect for me because it's kind of
juicy the cauliflower so it's not sweet
with that lovely salty rich cheese sauce
that is so so good you mentioned that
triple cauliflower thing Rosie I think
for the home cook that approach is
really quite difficult because you're
expecting to make three different things
for one plate but yeah but maybe you've
made a jar of pickled cauliflower and
you have that in the fridge so you could
if you were doing say a roasted
cauliflower dish or or a boiled
cauliflower dish you could throw some of
the stuff that you'd already pickled in
there as well for a bit for a bit of
different texture yeah well we're going
to be talking about vegetables some
other happy time and maybe we can talk
about pickling cauliflower but thank you
very much indeed I hope you've enjoyed
talking about British cheese I've got
lots of new ideas for it and I'll be the
first thing I'll be doing when I get
home is assembling a British cheese
board to celebrate all this lovely stuff
thank you fantastic thanks Alicia
[Music]
thank you for listening to today's show
you'll find the recipe and thousands
more on BBC good food comm if you have a
minute we'd love to hear from you on
Twitter Facebook or Instagram at BBC
good food
[Music]